---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-06 19:22:30 -0700
categories: cloud computing with aws
---

This weeks lab was focused on AWS. AWS is practically the leading cloud platform available right now. AWS provides the leading amount of functiionality and features within their services. AWS allows for infrasturcuture technologies to compute, store, and databases to emerge technologies such as machine learning and artifical intelligence. This allows for the whole process to be faster, easier, and more cost effective to be able to move our existing applications to the cloud. A type of functionality that AWS offers is like the variety of databases that are purpose build for different types of applications so we are able to choose the most appropriate tool for the job. 

AWS also has the largest community of the customers and partners. AWS has a dynamic community with millions of active customers and partners. This allows for a wide range of support and troubleshooting within partners who also incorporate AWS within their services. Customers across virtually every industry and enterprises all run every imaginable case on AWS. 

AWS is also very secure. It is backed by the most flexible and secure cloud computing environment that is available today. The core infrastructure is built to satisfy the security requirements for the military, banks, and other high sensitivity organizations. This is backed by the clouds security tools with 230 security, compliance, and governance services and features. AWS supports 90 security standards and ocmplicance certifications, and all of the 117 AWS services. 

AWS also has unmatched experience, maturity, reliablity, security and performance that you are able to depend on for the most important applications. For 14 years, AWS has been delivering cloud services to millions of customers that are around teh wrold running a wide variety of use cases. AWS practically has themost operational experience, at a greater scale in comparison to its competition. 