---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-13 19:22:30 -0700
categories: Setting Up AWS
---

Last weeks lab was not too hard but it did take a lot of effort and knowledge in setting up AWS. The lab was made so we can familiarize ourselves with the AWS console and creating an infrastructure to work on. The part that I was fairly stuck on was pretty much getting started. 

I first downloaded the Ubuntu image and then added my very own private key with a specific name to it. Then I copied that key to my desktop so it would be easier to navigate and use. I then CD'd onto my desktop and then I used the ssh -i command to designate the file or the key and pulled the ubuntu image @ my specific IP that was given to me when I was setting up the AWS infrastructure. 

After I was able to get inside my Ubuntu image, the rest was fairly easy. I used the apt-get update command to  update my index files and then i installed apache2. I then had to go back onto the AWS console and add the HTTP port so it would be able to read the index file that I edited in vim. Seeing that IP address display the content that I put within the index file was very interesting and showed me the usability of these tools that we are learning. I then instaled AWS CLI and then I created the S3 bucket and designted the select IAM role and Policies within the console. I then listed the my available buckets and i used the AWS CLI CP command to copy the index file to the designated bucket. I had a fairly hard time trying to find the exact syntax of the command but once I did, I pushed the index file to the bucket and then I finished the assignment. 

I am looking forward to the next part of this lab. 