---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11"
date:   2020-11-20 19:22:30 -0700
categories: Networking
---

Relatively there are about 11 types of networks that are in place. They are listed as 

1. Personal Area Network (PAN)
PAM is one of the most smallest and most basic type of network. PAN is mostly made up of a wireless modem as well as a computer and other smart devices. PAM revolves around one person in one building. These types of networks are found in small offices or personal residences
2. Local Area Network (LAN)
LAN is one of the most popular and most frequently discussed type of network. Local Area Networks connect certain groups of computers and other low voltage devices alongside one another across short distances in order to share information and resources. LAN is mostly used in enterprise types of offices.
3. Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
WLAN functions like a LAN but it is the wireless version of it. WLANs are typically seen in the same types of applications of LANs, but WLAN network setups do not require the use of physical connections for the devices to the networks. 
4. Campus Area Network (CAN)
CANs are far larger than LAN/s but they are smaller than MANs. These types of networks are typically seen in universities and school districts or even small businesses. They are often spread acorss several other buildings and are fairly close to the users so they can all have shared resources and connections.
5. Metropolitan Area Network (MAN)
MANS are larger than LANs but are typically smaller than WANs. They incorporate various elements from both of those networks. They are spread over an entire geographic area. Ownership and maintenance of this type of network is typically managed by an organization or even a single person. 
6. Wide Area Network (WAN)
WANs are slightly more complex than LANs. WANs connect computers together across longer physical distances. These allow for computers and other devices to remotely connect to one another over a large network and even able to communicate whent hey are miles apart. 
7. Storage Area Network (SAN)
These types of networks do not rely on LAN or WAN. THey often move storage resources away from the network and place them within their own high performance networks. SANs can be accessed the same way as a drive is attached to a server. 
8. System Area Network (SAN)
System are Networks may share the same acronym as Storage Area Networks but they are very different. This (type of network is fairly new. It is pretty much a local network that is designed in order to provide high speed connection in server to server applications. The computers that are connected to a system are network operate as a single system at very high perfromance speeds. 
9. Passive Optical Local Area Network (POLAN)
POLANs are an alternative to switch based ethernet LANs. POLANs can be integrated into structured cabling in order to overcome certain concerns about supporting the traditional Ethernet protocols and network applications such as power over ethernet. This is a point to mulitipoint LAN architecture. POLAN uses optical splitters in order to split optical signal from one strand of singlemode fiber into multiple signals to serve multiple users within a network.
10. Enterprise Private Network (EPN)
EPNs are built and owned by businesses that want to securely conect its various locations in order to share computer resources. 
11. Virtual Private Network (VPN)
VPNs extend a private network across the internet and it lets its users send and receive data as if their devices are connected to a private network even if they are not. Through a virtual point to point connection, users can access a private network remotely. 
