---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-12-04 19:22:30 -0700
categories: SQL
---
SQL stands for structured Query Language. A certain query language is a type of programming language that is designed to facilitate any type of information from databases, and that's exactly what SQL does. SQL can be seen as the language of databases. SQLs deal with relational databases. A relational database is a database that stores any type of related information across multiple tables and also allows for you to query infromation in more than one table at a time. 
This setup would work when you are tracking information that you already have. Within relational databases, you have certain variables that stand for select orders and variables for other entities. 
Data sets are manipulated with certain type of columns with different type of information. These columns can be an (id, duration, a start date end date, zip code, etc). The most important SQL commands are 
1. SELECT: extracts data from a database
2. UPDATE - updates data in a database
3. DELETE - deletes data from a database
4. INSERT INTO - inserts new data into a database
5. CREATE DATABASE - creates a new database
6. ALTER DATABASE - modifies a database
7. CREATE TABLE - creates a new table
8. ALTER TABLE - modifies a table
9. DROP TABLE - deletes a table
10. CREATE INDEX - creates an index (search key)
11. DROP INDEX - deletes an index

Standard SQL commands such as "Select", "Insert", "Update", "Delete", "Create", and "Drop" can be used to accomplish almost everything that one needs to do with a database. This tutorial will provide you with the instruction on the basics of each of these commands as well as allow you to put them to practice using the SQL Interpreter.