---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4 SP21"
date:   2021-03-26 19:22:30 -0700
categories: CyberSecurity 
---
Cyber security is a set of technologies, procedures, and practices aimed at preventing attacks, harm, and unauthorized access to networks, computers, programs, and data. Information technology protection is another term for cyber security. Since government, military, business, financial, and medical entities capture, process, and store massive quantities of data on computers and other devices, cyber security is critical. Sensitive data, such as intellectual property, financial data, and private details, may make up a large portion of that data.
In the course of the business, organizations send sensitive data through networks and to other devices, and cyber protection refers to the discipline devoted to safeguarding the data and the applications that process or store it. Companies and organisations are becoming increasingly vulnerable to hacking as the volume and sophistication of these attacks rises.


The ever-evolving essence of security risks is the most complex problem in cyber security. Organizations and governments have traditionally concentrated the majority of their cyber security efforts on perimeter security, protecting only their most critical device components and defending against known threats. 
This method is no longer adequate, as threats evolve and adapt at a faster rate than organizations can keep up with. As a result, consulting companies advocate for more constructive and adaptive cyber security approaches.

























