---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10 SP21"
date:   2021-05-07 19:22:30 -0700
categories: AWS Fargate 
---

AWS Fargate is a container serverless compute engine that integrates with Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). Fargate allows you to concentrate on developing your applications. Fargate eliminates the need to provision and maintain servers, allows you to define and pay for resources per program, and enhances protection by default.

Fargate automatically allocates the appropriate amount of compute, removing the need to select instances and scale cluster power. There is no over-provisioning or paying for extra servers since you just pay for the resources available to operate your containers. Fargate runs each task or pod in its own kernel, providing an independent compute environment for the tasks and pods. As a result, the application can be designed to provide workload isolation and enhanced protection. Customers like Vanguard, Accenture, Foursquare, and Ancestry have selected Fargate to host their mission-critical applications.

BENEFITS
If you're using ECS or EKS, Fargate allows you to concentrate on creating and running your applications. You just deal with and pay for your containers, so you don't have to worry about scaling, patching, protecting, or handling servers. Fargate ensures that the infrastructure on which the containers operate is still patched and up to date. Fargate launches and scales the compute to meet the container's resource requirements as closely as possible. Fargate eliminates the need for over-provisioning and extra server costs. Fargate, like Amazon EC2, offers Spot and Compute Savings Plan pricing options. Fargate Spot offers up to a 70% discount for interrupt-tolerant applications as compared to On-Demand rates, and Compute Savings Plan offers up to a 50% discount on committed spend for persistent workloads. Individual ECS tasks or EKS pods run in their own dedicated kernel runtime environment, with no other tasks or pods sharing CPU, memory, storage, or network resources. For each task or pod, this ensures workload isolation and enhanced protection. Built-in integrations with other AWS services, such as Amazon CloudWatch Container Insights, provide out-of-the-box observability with Fargate. Via an extensive range of third-party software with open interfaces, Fargate allows you to collect metrics and logs for tracking your applications.
