---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5 SP21"
date:   2021-04-02 19:22:30 -0700
categories: AWS Lambda
---
AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service that runs your code in response to events and automatically manages the underlying compute resources for you. You can use AWS Lambda to extend other AWS services with custom logic, or create your own back-end services that operate at AWS scale, performance, and security. AWS Lambda can automatically run code in response to multiple events. Lambda runs the code on high-availability computing infrastructure and manages all computing resource management, such as server and software maintenance, power provisioning and automatic scaling, code and security patch deployment, and code testing and logging. All you have to do now is provide the code. A Lambda function is the name for the code you run on AWS Lambda. Similar to a formula in a spreadsheet, once you construct a Lambda feature, it is always ready to run as soon as it is activated. Each function contains the code as well as some related configuration information, such as the function name and resource specifications. Lambda functions are often "stateless," which means they don't store any data. You can link your feature with unique AWS tools after you upload your code to AWS Lambda (e.g. a particular Amazon S3 bucket, Amazon DynamoDB table, Amazon Kinesis stream, or Amazon SNS notification). When the resource changes, Lambda will run the function and adjust the compute resources as required to keep up with the incoming requests.

COST

You pay per execution time rather than per server unit with AWS Lambda. You only pay for requests served and the compute time needed to run your code when you use Lambda functions. Billing is performed in 1 millisecond increments, making it cost-effective and quick to scale from a few requests every day to thousands every second automatically. You pay for the amount of concurrency you configure and the length of time you configure it with Provisioned Concurrency. When you allow Provisioned Concurrency for your feature and run it, you'll be charged for requests and execution time. 

