---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9 SP21"
date:   2021-04-30 19:22:30 -0700
categories: Using AWS in our project. 
---

My group and I were able to host our front end part of our website within an ec2 instance. It is hosted using the public IPV4 address of our instance. I created 
the website within an amazon linux image and started up apache within that container and then used the "wget" command to pull the zip files from the s3 bucket that we
created. Then there you go, the website is now hosted. Now this poses my group and I with a couple of problems. How are we going to post the data that we are pulling with 
our data scraper (i will go over that later), onto our front end. This is one of the last issues that my group and I have and once we find out the solution, it will be easy from
there on out. 

We created a python script that scrapes data off of a div class that uploads current up to date information about the covid 19 vaccination data. We found the div class of the data
that we are going to scrape and our script checks out. Then we created a LAMBDA function that practically pulls the function from our script that has a layer within it that
automatically dumps the data as a JSON file into an s3 bucket and there the data that we scraped from the website will be displayed. Although we came across some runtime errors
these were easy fixes that my group and I will find a solution to. Now that the backend is finished, which is practically pulling the data, the only thing we have to do now is
upload the JSON objects into a portrayable manner into our front end and then the project that we have been working on is practically done. Seeing all the awesome features that AWS has to offer made me want to sign up for the cloud practitioner exam so I can get certified and hopefully this opens more doors for me within the AWS realm .