---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6 SP21"
date:   2021-04-09 19:22:30 -0700
categories: Amazon Managed Blockchain
---

Using the common open-source platforms Hyperledger Fabric and Ethereum, Amazon Managed Blockchain is a completely managed service that makes it simple to join public networks or build and manage scalable private networks. The blockchain technology allows developers to create applications that allow multiple parties to perform transactions without the need for a trusted central authority. Building a scalable blockchain network today using current technology is difficult to set up and maintain. Each network member must manually provision hardware, install software, establish and maintain access control certificates, and configure networking components in order to create a blockchain network. Once the blockchain network is up and running, you'll need to keep an eye on it and react to changes like increased transaction requests or new members entering or leaving the network. With only a few taps, you can enter public networks or set up and operate scalable private networks with Amazon Managed Blockchain, a completely managed service. Amazon Managed Blockchain removes the time and effort needed to set up a network or join one that is already up and running, and it scales automatically to meet the needs of thousands of applications processing millions of transactions. Managed Blockchain makes it simple to control and maintain the blockchain network once it's up and running. It keeps track of your certificates and makes it easy to invite new people to join the network.

BENEFITS

Fully Managed
You can easily build blockchain networks that span several AWS accounts with Amazon Managed Blockchain, allowing a group of members to perform transactions and exchange data without the need for a central authority. Unlike self-hosting the blockchain infrastructure, Amazon Managed Blockchain removes the need for manual provisioning of hardware, software configuration, and networking and security configuration. Network participants can vote to add or delete members using Managed Blockchain's voting API. Managed Blockchain allows a new member to launch and configure several blockchain peer nodes to process transaction requests and store a copy of the ledger once they have been added.

Scalable and Secure 
Amazon is a company that sells books As the number of applications on the network increases, Managed Blockchain will easily scale the blockchain network. When a network member needs more bandwidth for making and validating transactions, they can use Managed Blockchain's APIs to easily connect a new peer node. Managed Blockchain offers a variety of instance styles with different combinations of CPU and memory, giving you the freedom to pick the best resource mix for your workload. Additionally, Managed Blockchain uses AWS Key Management Service (KMS) technology to protect your network's certificates, removing the need for you to set up your own secure key storage.

Reliability
The “ordering service,” a part of the Hyperledger Fabric architecture that ensures transaction distribution across the blockchain network, is more reliable with Amazon Managed Blockchain. The default ordering service in Hyperledger Fabric does not save a full transaction history, making it difficult to keep track of and recover transaction history when required. The ordering service from Managed Blockchain is based on Amazon QLDB technology and has an immutable change log that reliably records the full history of all transactions in the blockchain network, meaning that you can save this information for the long term.